[WHOOSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Does your
soul evolve from one life
to the next?
Have you had a life on Earth
or anywhere else before?
How do you use your
intuition to find
the answers to these questions?
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, and joining
me is psychologist and founder
of the RavenHeart Center for
Regression Therapy, Dr. Linda
Backman.
Dr. Backman has more than 40
years of experience assisting
people through past life,
or what she calls spiritual,
regression to help
people understand
their life's purpose.
Dr. Backman is also the
author of three books
and has shared her message on
numerous national talk shows.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining me.
>>DR. LINDA BACKMAN:
Thank you, Lisa,
it's a pleasure to be here.
>>LISA: Mine, too.
I am so excited about
this conversation.
So, tell me why you chose
past life regression
therapy as opposed to a
traditional psychology.
>>BACKMAN: In a
way, it chose me.
So I was a conventional
psychologist
for about 15 years in
private practice doing
what you would imagine a
general psychologist does.
I was very interested
and did a lot of death,
dying, and grief
counseling back then.
I didn't really understand why
until I fell into this work.
Then, I had a
colleague die, and I
had some very surprising--
back then, surprising to me--
spiritual experiences.
And so today, I really believe
I agreed to do this work,
but it happened.
And I chose it because
I found it fascinating.
>>LISA: What were
the experiences you
had when the colleague died?
Share that with us.
>>BACKMAN: Yeah, so my
colleague was a man 14 years
younger than I.
Together, we had built
a group, private
practice, of psychologists
and psychiatrists.
And I thought I'd just retire
one day and hand the practice
over to him.
Sadly, he was diagnosed
at the age of about 31
with a serious type
of lung cancer.
And 18 months later, the
cancer took his life,
which of course, from a human
perspective, was extremely sad.
But basically,
what happened when
he passed, within
about a day, I started
having spiritual experiences.
Now, back then, I didn't
know whether I believed
in reincarnation or I didn't.
I'd read a book.
I didn't know what
to do with it.
I, apparently, wasn't ready.
He passed and,
basically, what happened
for me is that I began to
feel his energy all around me.
I began to intuit him
communicating to me.
I thought that
was kind of weird.
I didn't quite know
what to do with it.
And I began to see scenes in
my mind's eye of past lives
that I believed I'd
shared with him.
So I thought, you know,
either I need my own therapist
or I need my own medication
or whatever, which I knew I--
you know, I knew what--
>>LISA: Well, how
did you know it
wasn't a part of your
grieving process?
>>BACKMAN: I just knew.
You know, that's
the thing when you
fall into this kind of work.
It had never happened
to me before.
I'd had other grief
processes before.
I'd never had those experiences.
And simply, another
step I took, which
really made a big
difference to me,
is I asked my
husband to sit down.
We'd never talked
about reincarnation.
Both of us have
graduate degrees.
For some reason,
we'd never discussed
these kinds of things.
I asked him to sit down.
I explained to him
what was going on.
And I thought he'd
just look back at me
and go, oh, honey, there, there.
There's just something
weird going on.
But he didn't, Lisa, and he
looked back at me very calmly.
And I said to my
husband, I said,
you don't think this
is strange, do you?
And he said, no.
I said, why not?
And he said, only now do
I remember that as a boy,
he said, I remembered
my past lives in detail.
I knew they were past lives.
He had never told me this,
because he'd repressed it.
So it was like permission.
It was almost like he said,
if you're interested in this,
go for it, which,
obviously, I did.
>>LISA: How do you identify
past lives from just
an active imagination?
>>BACKMAN: Because
the past lives
explain something
in current life.
Because the past lives
have a direct connection
to life today.
They explain something
we're working on
to change in life today,
which is what we call karma.
They also can explain
a relationship,
a phobia, a physical symptom.
>>LISA: The unexplained, right?
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
>>LISA: Stuff that we
just can't make sense of.
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
>>LISA: OK.
So is that the soul
evolving, essentially,
as we go through lifetime
to lifetime to lifetime?
Is that what we're attempting
to do, is evolve as a soul?
>>BACKMAN: Well, what
I've come to understand,
after 25 years of guiding
clients-- where I don't give
them the information, they give
it to me-- along with mentors
I'd had, is that the soul
is required to evolve.
It's almost like,
as a soul, we're
required to come into body,
and we're required to learn.
And learning isn't easy.
So we gather karma, and
we also gather dharma.
And that's what we're working
on in our current life.
>>LISA: What's the difference
between karma and dharma?
>>BACKMAN: Yeah, that's
a great question.
Karma, as most people know
is a freewill decision
we made in a past life that
perhaps wasn't the best
decision.
It's not a permanent
black mark on your soul.
It's something you can
balance in a subsequent life.
So it's like if you were
a neglectful parent.
>>LISA: Does it
always have to be bad?
I mean, does it
always have to be
something that wasn't resolved?
Could it be good?
>>BACKMAN: That's
what dharma is.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>BACKMAN: So that's perfect.
I'm glad you're
asking it exactly--
>>LISA: Oh, that's
a great distinction.
Got it.
>>BACKMAN: --exactly like that.
Karma is a decision
that wasn't preferable.
It doesn't have to
be something horrible
and deep and dark and dangerous.
But dharma means soul intention.
So at times, when
I'm guiding a client,
their guides choose to
show them not karma.
So that isn't always what
comes up in a past life.
Sometimes it's dharma,
because that's what
we accomplished in a past life.
And we need to know
we've accomplished it,
because in life today,
we don't believe we have.
>>LISA: So we want to,
as a soul, figure it out,
unravel it, get to the next
step, make sense of it,
and that's why we reincarnate?
Probably?
>>BACKMAN: So the misnomer
that most people have
is that we grow
at the soul level
you might say between lives.
Or we grow as a soul
because our soul
resides in the spiritual realm.
We basically evolve in
body, not out of body.
So in order to grow-- it's
sort of like in order to learn,
you have to go to school.
In order to evolve, you
have to come into body,
and then make choices based on--
you have a life plan,
life intentions.
And then, you basically
come in with free will.
>>LISA: Interesting.
I mean, you would think
that it makes more sense
to evolve in a
lifetime, because you
have people and relationships
and other things
to bounce off of
to help you grow.
>>BACKMAN: Right.
>>LISA: As a spirit,
you wouldn't know.
I mean, how do you
know all this is valid?
>>BACKMAN: That's
a great question.
People ask me that all the time.
I know it's valid based
on when I guide clients--
and I've been getting clients
almost week in and week out
for 25 years--
I hear similar things, like
what happens when we die.
Like we have spiritual guides
and spiritual guidance.
And so I don't give the
clients the information.
They speak the information
during the regression.
And it's almost
like doing research.
It's almost like a case
study method research.
When I've heard it 10 times
or 15 times or 25 times,
it's like it must be valid.
>>LISA: What are
some of those themes
that you hear over and
over again in regressions?
>>BACKMAN: A classic one comes
to mind when you say that.
Often, a client
goes to a past life.
They have a
challenging experience.
They have a loss through death.
They had a loss
of a relationship.
They have a physical challenge.
And they cave into it.
They cave into it and live
out the rest of their lives
in depression or
live out the rest
of their lives kind
of hiding away and not
having much of a life.
Apparently, the
guides that coordinate
the higher realm,
if you will, that
is not what they want us to do.
They want us to take
on the challenge
and figure out how
to grow and evolve
with that intrusion,
that challenge.
What do we do with it?
How do we make it something
positive versus taking us down?
>>LISA: Is this why you
created the RavenHeart Center?
>>BACKMAN: Well, the
RavenHeart Center
came out of the
segue, the bridge,
where it was like, oh
my gosh, do I give up
conventional psychology?
Will I ever get
a referral again?
Back when I was doing
conventional work,
most of my referrals came
from medical doctors.
So it's like when I fell into
the spiritual work, I thought,
oh, well, I'll just
get, if you will,
washed out of the profession.
That isn't what happened.
So the RavenHeart Center
came out of the bridge of I'm
going to get brave
enough to follow my heart
and follow my passion and
let go of conventional work.
>>LISA: Wow.
How long into it did
you make that decision?
>>BACKMAN: I was
about three years
into discovering
this spiritual work.
And it was like, oh,
I was frightened.
People said, you might
lose your license.
I never lost my license.
>>LISA: I like the tagline.
It says, a mystery school for
the advancement of the soul.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
Yes.
You know, in days gone
by, back in ancient Egypt,
there were mystery schools
where people studied the soul.
And I thought, well, we can
have modern-day mystery schools.
So it's about who
are we as a soul?
Why do we come into body?
Why do good things
happen to-- you
know, why do bad things
happen to good people?
>>LISA: Yes, that's
such a big question.
>>BACKMAN: What is the point?
There is a point.
>>LISA: There is something
associated with the school
called Raven Social Action.
What's that?
>>BACKMAN: And I love that
you've asked me that question.
So, as we evolve
as a soul, we have
to be active participants
on the planet.
It isn't just about
balancing our karma
and embracing our dharma.
It's about what we do
actively in our life?
So Raven Social
Action really relates
to pick your favorite cause.
Pick your local Humane Society.
Pick one of the progressive
organizations on the planet.
Donate your time donate
your money or do both.
Become active participants
to move humanity forward.
So that's what Raven
Social Action is.
>>LISA: So if you had a
past life experience, maybe,
in the Holocaust, you
would then volunteer
at a Holocaust organization
or a museum or something
like that, right?
That's what you're saying?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, absolutely.
And sometimes people think,
well, the action has to be big.
It has to be lots of
money or lots of time.
It can be promote organic
gardening in your neighborhood.
But do something that
progresses our human culture.
>>LISA: Does it help unravel
or maybe heal that past life,
do you think?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Yes?
>>BACKMAN: I mean, that is a
wonderful way to look at it.
Yes, because then we become--
it's sort of like
it heals that theme.
If we go back to that
theme that we talked about,
it heals the theme of
don't cave in and just
sit home and don't be active,
an active participant.
Do something literal.
>>LISA: So let's talk about
what is past life regression.
What is the experience
that someone goes through?
>>BACKMAN: Well, the
first thing that people
worry about, the common
worry is, oh, it's hypnosis.
What is hypnosis?
People misunderstand hypnosis.
Hypnosis, very
simply, is relaxation.
Hypnosis is where we take
ourselves every day of our life
when we relax ourselves.
So if we're doing
something left-brained,
the cycles per second of our
brain are at the fastest speed.
When we naturally relax,
take a walk, listen to music,
go in the kitchen and even
begin to cook, or something
like that, the cycles per
second of our brain slow down.
Our right brain, our intuitive
activity in our brain,
becomes more, if
you will, lit up.
That's what I guide people
to access in regression work.
So I use breathing, guided
imagery, and metaphor.
It surprises people how
easy it is to access
the first scene in a past life.
And then, it's the job of a
trained regression therapist
to know how to open it
up, how to ask questions,
how to deepen it.
But also, it moves
forward spontaneously.
I don't give the
information to the client.
They tell me the information.
>>LISA: When you start
with the regression--
I've been through this
before with someone else.
And they said, OK, as you drift
off and you're in this state,
now, open your eyes
and look at your feet.
Where are you?
That was where this
person started.
Do you have a specific
starting point?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: You do?
I mean, I have a model.
I train people in this
work, but I have a model.
And it's interesting.
That is one of the first steps,
and I do two things with that.
I say, I want you to imagine
that you can see your feet.
But I also add in, I
want you to imagine
that if you can't see your
feet, you can touch your feet.
Because intuition
also works for touch.
>>LISA: So immediately,
you will see
sandals or dirt or something.
And then, you'll ask the
person to look around you.
What is happening?
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
And I ask very simple things
like, is it hot or cold
or just a comfortable
temperature?
Do you sense you're
alone or not alone?
So it's a little, tiny questions
that the client couldn't
make up the details.
As they begin to
describe the scene,
it becomes extremely
detailed, far more detailed.
I say to the client when
we're finished, unless you're
a famous novelist, I don't think
you could have made this up.
>>LISA: Ah, and
it links, usually,
with historical facts, right?
>>BACKMAN: It links with facts
and also, in particular, it
links with the
client's current life.
It needs to explain something
about their own life.
>>LISA: So they
come in saying, I
have this issue
with a relationship,
or I have a problem with my
money, or whatever it is,
and you'll find it?
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
>>LISA: Like clues in the past.
Fascinating.
Let's take a look at Linda's
story of her own past life
regression.
>>BACKMAN: Now I don't believe
that everybody is supposed
to have children,
because that's not--
based on what I know, we're
not all scripted in every life
to be a mother or father.
But if the reason you
don't have children
is because it felt too
scary, you almost, for sure,
had a child die in a past life.
Almost for sure.
That's what brought
me, actually,
into the field of psychology,
is 41 or 42 years ago, Earl
and I were pregnant
with our second child.
We have two living children.
We were pregnant with
our second child.
That's a baby that
was born at six
months or 26 weeks of an
average 40-week pregnancy.
We were 25 and 26 years old.
It, obviously, was
a long time ago.
And that baby lived a
short time and passed.
Changed my life.
Was it hard back then?
Oh my gosh, probably one of the
hardest experiences of my life.
Did it change me?
Yes, because I ended
up in psychotherapy.
And then I became fascinated
with the grief process.
And then I started
working with parents
who'd had a child die,
because a lot of people
are afraid to do
that kind of work.
It was scripted.
It was on my journey
for a reason.
I now know that I've had at
least one past life where
I was a crummy mother, where
I was a into my own thing
kind of mother.
And I needed to
experience what it
was like to, as we say, in
general language, lose a child.
So I lost a child.
>>LISA: That was so
important to talk about,
because it's so
challenging to understand
the loss of a child, and
especially a newborn.
And how did you
manage the pain of it?
Because you did explain it
through the regression part.
But at the moment, how
did you manage that?
>>BACKMAN: Well,
Lisa, I was young.
I was 25.
I knew nothing about what
we're talking about today.
I was 25 years old.
This content that we're talking
about was not there in my head.
So I didn't understand it.
So how I dealt
with it back then,
long story, but I ended up
in a psychiatrist's office.
I ended up on
anti-depressant medication.
There is nothing wrong
with any of that,
so I don't want to
say that at all.
But I realized I had to dig
in and understand my feelings.
It's actually what led me
to become a psychologist.
I wasn't spiritual, so
that's an important piece.
But I found I had to work
on understanding myself.
And so I stopped
taking the medication
and stopped seeing the
psychiatrist, who simply wanted
to give me medication,
and found a therapist
where I could work on me.
But I became fascinated with
death, dying, and grieving.
It's why I did--
>>LISA: That's what started it.
I see.
>>BACKMAN: That's why
I did that years ago
as a conventional psychology.
>>LISA: I see.
I was wondering why
you started with that.
That makes sense now.
So you discovered this
later, and then you
went on to have another child.
You have two healthy children
today, adult children today.
How can you use
past life regression
to understand if you have
an issue with a child
or an ornery child or a child
that you can't understand?
Sometimes they say, oh, I
didn't raise this child.
They're not mine.
Well, you have two twins who are
identical twins with completely
different behavior.
Can you explain that through
past life regression?
>>BACKMAN: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, the first thing I
would automatically say to you
is that if you're the
parent and there's a child,
you made an agreement
at the soul level
to be parent and child.
You came together for a reason.
Now, does that mean, if you
know that, it makes it easy?
No.
Then, you need to
go back and track
what happened in the past.
What are the relationships
you had in the past?
That child might have
been your mother.
been your husband.
What happened in that
relationship in the past that
is showing up in life today?
And once the client understands
the content of the past,
then they basically
have the tools
to work with it in the present.
>>LISA: I have that
experience with my daughter.
We didn't even go through a
regression to figure this out,
but we learned
that she and I were
separated at a very early age.
And she and I were
separated in the Holocaust.
And there was literally
a scene that we
shared with each other--
I remember, when she was young
and she was in the bathtub,
and we were talking.
And it was the way that I
reached my hand over to her
that I realized that we were
ripped away from each other,
and she watched my death.
And I said this out
loud, and she was seven.
And we just started crying,
because it was such a visceral
feeling-- it still is--
of being ripped
away from my child.
And I always have
such an empathy,
because I can't imagine anything
worse than losing a child.
And I think that's
because it happened.
And we have such a bond today.
Even when I leave to travel,
it's like an immediate,
I'm going to miss you.
It's like that lights up
in the strangest of ways.
How do you deal with that in
this lifetime, where sometimes
it doesn't go well and you have
such a bad relationship, where
it's constantly igniting?
I mean, at least we have a
good feeling of being together.
>>BACKMAN: Well, I think that's
the beauty of regression work.
It's like a key in a lock.
It's like if you didn't
know about that past life,
then you don't have the content
to understand the feelings.
And what happens
for so many of us
is we beat up on ourselves
for the feelings.
But if we know where
they come from,
then I think we can more easily
work on beating up on ourself.
I have a similar issue with one
of my children, who was also
with me in the Holocaust.
And he was my baby brother,
and I was separated from him
and taken to a camp.
And this is one of
my children of today.
And when my son went to study
in Europe, my son of today,
I was a wreck.
But then I discovered--
some years later,
actually-- that he was my young
brother that was off at school
on the day my house
was stormed in Paris
when I was a Jew in Paris.
And I never saw
my brother again,
and I adored my baby brother.
That is my son of today.
>>LISA: So you were unadjustedly
upset when he went to college?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
I was completely
a mess for months.
>>LISA: I'm anticipating
that day now,
and it's like four years.
>>BACKMAN: But you have content.
That makes a difference.
I had no content.
>>LISA: So you can really
look to those past lives.
I wonder what we're
creating today that's going
to impact our future lives.
>>BACKMAN: What I believe
we are doing is, to me,
that is what is the purpose
of coming into body,
is to balance our karma
and embrace our dharma.
And as we do that, I
really believe, Lisa,
that we contribute to,
we impact our future.
We impact our individual
future, but we impact our,
you might say, group
humanity future.
>>LISA: I mentioned
in the beginning
about this impacting
people's life purpose.
And really helping them
either cement into that
or discover what that is our
change directions completely.
Can you share an example of
how that happened with someone?
They really discovered
their life purpose
through regression.
>>BACKMAN: I could share either
about me or about a client,
because I think
that's what happened
to me when my colleague passed.
And my colleague
started talking to me,
and I became fascinated
with reincarnation.
I thought I'd be a
general psychologist
the rest of my life, the
rest of my working life.
I never dreamed I'd be
doing what I'm doing today.
Most psychologists
don't do what I do.
So a lot of people will say,
don't you worry about that?
And I don't.
When we understand
our life purpose--
and people will ask me,
clients will ask me, well,
how do I can figure
out my life purpose?
And I do spiritual counseling,
as well as a regression.
I'll say, what are
you passionate about?
What really turns on
the juices in you?
What turns on our juices is
what we're meant to be doing,
no matter whether it's growing
a garden that you've never
grown before or doing what
you do or doing what I do.
>>LISA: And what about a client?
Have they changed?
Have you had people completely
change directions, careers?
>>BACKMAN: Oh, many times.
People who've been an attorney
their whole life, but they've
always wanted to be an artist.
And they've always had these
sort of under-the-rug sort
of artistic abilities.
But they don't want to
own it because perhaps
something happened to them
as the artist in a past life.
>>LISA: What about
a relationship,
where someone realizes that
this is the person they're not
supposed to be with because
something happened in the past?
>>BACKMAN: I love that you're
asking me that question.
That's a common theme.
And what I find is that
we come into body--
we often connect with
someone that we're
meant to clean up karma with.
It could be a marriage.
It could just be
a number of years
of a romantic relationship.
We clean up the karma.
That doesn't mean we're meant to
stay with them our whole life.
And at times, I help
clients understand
making that decision, based
on learning about past lives.
At times, people stay with
that original partner.
At other times, they've
completed the contract.
The contract is over,
and they're only
going to find that much more
comfortable relationship
by letting go of what they
cleaned up so they can move
on to what really
is in store for them
in a very positive
way that's coming
in another relationship or
a type of work or whatever.
>>LISA: Do you go
into divorce court
and say, well, I had a past life
with him when I was his mother,
and I'm done with that?
I mean, how does that go?
>>BACKMAN: I don't.
Have I done that in my
old psychologist life?
Yes.
Do the expert witness
thing, yes, I've done that.
But that's an
interesting question.
I've never considered that.
But I hope people
make that decision.
I, of course, don't tell
them what decision to make.
It's their choice.
But they gain information.
It helps them know
the reason they
need to move on in
their life and let go
of that current relationship.
>>LISA: You are having
an eye surgery, right?
And you said that it helped
you so much understand
the purpose of the eye surgery
by understanding the past life.
It demystifies the current--
or it takes the fear
out of the experience
if you really understand it.
>>BACKMAN: It
takes the fear out,
and it gives it a
grounding in logic.
I mean, I think that's a
really important point, too,
in terms of what
you do or what I do.
It's that we need to be
balanced left and right brained.
So we get, sometimes, emotional
content from a past life.
But then we work with
it in our left brain
to gain an understanding
of, oh, this
is why I'm having to go
through this challenge.
This challenge is purposeful.
It's going to lead me to a
different level of evolution
of who I am as a soul.
>>LISA: I mean, take something,
for example, like cancer.
Can you look into a
past life and look
at why you might have a breast
cancer and there was an injury?
Have you ever seen that
actually regress cancer?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: You're kidding.
>>BACKMAN: Well, I
guess I would say
I'm thinking about a
particular client I'm
working with right now, that she
has a breast cancer diagnosis.
She totally believes it's not
about dying from the cancer.
She believes it's about taking
some new steps in her life
and, you might say,
furthering her soul evolution.
So she's approaching it--
I'm not saying she doesn't
have any fear at all.
But she's approaching
it from how is this
going to take me further
up the ladder of my life?
And so far, she's
doing beautifully,
and the doctors are
pleased with her progress.
>>LISA: Really?
Interesting.
And could there be someone
maybe has throat cancer
and they went through a hanging?
I mean, have you
found that to be true?
>>BACKMAN: Absolutely.
It is absolutely a possibility.
>>LISA: And once they've looked
and healed that lifetime, it
starts to resolve?
>>BACKMAN: Are there guarantees?
Of course not.
But yes, can we, at times,
discover what's that past life
issue and can it
literally affect our body
and then, you might
say, disaffect our body?
It can.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
I think that's really important
for people to understand.
So let's talk about soul groups.
Do we incarnate with
a group of people
that we've been with before?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
And again, people might say,
well, how does Linda know this?
I know this from client
after client after client,
where what they
come upon, at times,
at the soul level
of a regression,
is a group of souls with whom
they incarnate repetitively.
So simply put, I like
to call it a soul pod.
A soul pod means most of us have
about 10 to 20 souls with whom
we incarnate most often.
Does that mean they're
all in our current life?
No.
Probably all 10 to
20 are not with us.
But it also explains
relationships,
like why do I feel so
drawn to this person?
It's because we've known
them over and over and over.
>>LISA: So would it
be a family member?
Is it usually family?
Is it usually parents, siblings?
>>BACKMAN: No.
>>LISA: No?
Really?
>>BACKMAN: No.
It is usually about
three different things.
It is usually blood family,
someone you would call family
but they're not blood, someone
who either mentored you or was
a successor of yours.
In other words,
you mentored them.
But I also want to be sure that
everybody hears this piece.
It is also your adversaries.
It is people with whom,
at the soul level,
you agreed to push each others
buttons for the sake of soul
evolution.
So it can be I have a sibling
who is one of my adversaries.
It's all about my learning.
It's all about his learning.
>>LISA: And you approach
the relationship
differently knowing that?
>>BACKMAN: I do.
>>LISA: 100%, right?
>>BACKMAN: I don't know
that I can speak for him,
but yes, because
it explains, oh, I
know what happened
in a past life.
I know why we came into body
and why I push your buttons,
you push my buttons.
It gives me, again, that
left brain content that
helps explain the
right brain struggle,
the emotional struggle.
>>LISA: So you don't
get so frustrated?
You anticipate situations,
you're not shocked by them?
You know what's going
to happen, kind of?
>>BACKMAN: It sort of
gives it a grounding
that it never had before.
It takes away I won't
say 100% of the angst.
But it takes away
a lot of the angst
because, again, I keep
using the word content,
but it gives content.
>>LISA: When we were talking
about the souls as a spirit,
it hangs out in the
spirit realm for a while
and then goes back
into the body.
Is there a between
life regression or a
between life experience that
you're talking about there?
>>BACKMAN: Two things.
Probably two answers
to what you're asking.
First of all, it's important
for everybody to know,
when we come into
body, we bring a slice
of our soul or an aspect
or a fractal of our soul
into body to cause us
to be alive at birth.
The remainder of our
soul is our higher self.
So we're always in body
and in soul, in spirit,
simultaneously.
So that's our higher self.
I guide a type of
regression called
between lives regression.
The only reason it's
called that is we
work at the soul
level of the client.
>>LISA: Between
lives regression?
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
>>LISA: Explain.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
So, I call it between
life soul regression.
It was originally written about
by a mentor of mine whose name
is Dr. Michael Newton.
He wrote about it years ago.
He's passed and
on the other side.
It's regression where I go
the client into past life.
We move we move through the
past life scene by scene.
We go to the death scene.
Now, the client
doesn't literally
feel like they're dying,
but they experience
what caused their death.
They experience who was
there, who wasn't there.
That's all very important.
And then we work at the
soul level of the client,
because they follow
their journey back
into the spiritual realm.
We work with guides.
We work with how they
planned their current life.
We work with guidance from
their guides about present life.
But it's soul level work,
not just past life work.
>>LISA: So what we
went through as a soul
to get ready to incarnate
now, the fractal
that we bring with us?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
It's very confusing.
It's always hard
to explain this.
It's like what
people often don't
think about is our soul
is in spirit at all times,
whether we're incarnate or not.
But when we're incarnate,
I can guide a regression,
and the client then works
at their soul level,
understanding possibly
more past life material,
but also understanding
current life explanation.
Usually, spiritual
guides show up.
And the spiritual guides are
the conduit, you might say.
Clients connect with that
guidance that we all have.
>>LISA: We actually
have video here
of talking about this
between life regression.
Take a look.
>>BACKMAN: This is
a female client,
fictitiously named Arlene.
She says, in the
past life, she says,
I have an argument with my
husband about our daughter.
I go to my room and cry.
I'm not happy with myself.
I want to be more loving
and show affection better.
I've made a mess of things
and feel very alone.
Some years later, I'm
in bed sick and dying.
I feel sick at heart.
My husband is here.
He does care for me.
He is sad.
He regrets the lack of
love in our marriage,
as do I. How can two people
so alike be so far apart?
It's all my fault.
Life didn't go OK.
I have made others miserable.
I tell him I'm sorry,
and he understands.
I've wasted a life
and messed up.
I've kept too much inside of me.
I did not accomplish much.
I had to marry and
felt guilty about it.
My daughter was deaf.
She loved her
father more than me.
Then, the client dies.
I'm going higher.
I cannot see my body any longer.
It's dark all around.
Now I feel like
I'm being pulled.
I relax and just let it happen.
I'm in a clearing.
It's getting lighter.
This feels very relaxing.
I'm stretched out.
Now I see where
I'm supposed to be.
I'm coming into a globe or
a dome of sorts, with points
all around it.
This looks like countryside.
There's intelligent energy here.
I see familiar
people smiling at me.
There's a big building
with steps going up.
I can go in, but I want to just
wait and relax on the grass.
We're allowed to move at
whatever speed we choose.
Now there are a lot
of friends coming.
Some look human,
and others do not.
I recognize only some of them.
Now my husband and daughter
are coming toward me.
Husband and daughter
from current life.
And so, parentheses,
when we are incarnate,
a portion of our
soul energy always
remains in the spiritual realm.
This is labeled as our higher
self or our superconscious.
So that's how the
husband and the daughter
show up in the
time between lives.
My guide arrives and says, I'm
right here, where I always am.
I've been here
all along for you.
I've been guiding you all along.
My name is Swallow.
Swallow tells me I had a
bumpy ride in the last life.
She feels sympathetic, not
angry or disappointed in me.
She assures me there are
more opportunities ahead.
She says, do not get
bogged down with shoulds.
There's more good in the
last life than you think.
The guilt was so
overwhelming for you
that you could not
recognize the good.
You were so focused on what
you did not like in that life.
You'll feel better soon.
It's all OK.
>>LISA: So in that
video, the person
talked about having a guide.
Do you notice that
many people have
guides through the
regression and currently?
>>BACKMAN: Well, the
bottom line is we all
have spiritual guides.
So I have no doubt.
And you know, people can say,
well, how do you know that,
Linda?
Because they show
up spontaneously in
regressions all the time.
>>LISA: Like in what form?
>>BACKMAN: All forms, actually.
Sometimes they show up
in a human-seeming form.
Sometimes they're a loved one.
Sometimes they're a
grandmother, a parent,
someone who passed on.
That can be one of our guides.
That is almost never
our main guide.
Sometimes they show
up in energy form.
Sometimes they show up
as a light, a color.
Sometimes it's just a feel.
It's just an emotion
that is the trigger
that our guide is present.
>>LISA: Do you have guides?
>>BACKMAN: I talk to
my guides all the time.
>>LISA: In what way?
>>BACKMAN: In my head.
So what I call
cognitive intuition.
And it took me a
long time, Lisa,
to learn to trust this, like,
oh, I'm just making this up,
as clients will say to me, too.
It's like, no, they give me
guidance in certain cases,
if I follow it.
They'll say, like, don't talk
to your daughter about that.
Honestly, they'll say,
leave that conversation out.
And I discover it was
smart to leave it out.
So they just talk
to me in my head.
>>LISA: So it's more
than your knowing.
It's really from somewhere else.
Something you wouldn't
really know to do or follow.
>>BACKMAN: Yes it's
something like I'm
inclined to go discuss something
with someone or do something.
I'm really going to do it.
And then, my guide
almost says, hang on.
Put on the brakes.
Think about this.
Maybe that's not the best idea.
And most of the time,
not 100% of the time,
I follow the suggestion.
>>LISA: I hear this while
I'm driving all the time.
And I'll just hear, back off.
Slow down.
And something
inevitably happens,
or a speeding car comes around.
Yeah, it's really good
practice to learn to listen.
>>BACKMAN: Oh, and trust.
I mean, that's another word
in capital letters, is trust.
>>LISA: Yes.
It's very interesting,
and I want
to find out, as you can talk
about between life regressions,
can you also talk about
future regression?
I guess you wouldn't
regress into the future,
but I had this experience in
a past life regression where
I saw into a future life.
Is this normal?
>>BACKMAN: Well, we
call that progression.
So instead of regression,
we call that progression.
What I find happens is
when a client of mine
either spontaneously--
or that's one
of their goals for
the regression,
they want to get
a sense of what's
going to happen in the future.
My understanding
about that, Lisa,
is that if our guides show
us progression, future,
they're showing us
future possibilities.
Our evolution in
life today impacts
our future possibilities.
So that the future
isn't set in stone,
but how we live our life
today and whether we're
working on our karma and our
dharma impacts our future.
So, yes, we can
gain some insight
into future possibilities.
>>LISA: I saw the
way that we lived,
and we lived in these
cities, but they
were encapsulated cities.
And they were big, white kind
of pods, where we could move
around, and they were large.
Because the outside air
was so contaminated,
we wound up living in these
kind of sterilized environments.
>>BACKMAN: Right.
>>LISA: But it was
really interesting,
because there was a
lot of teaching that
would go on throughout
these different pods.
You can go to a
pod of awareness,
or you can go to a
pod of community.
And everybody was connected, and
that was the interesting part
about this future.
Have you heard
this from clients,
that there's future
planets or places?
Or can you tell us
what you've heard?
>>BACKMAN: Well, I hear
two things from clients
that I think are important.
One is that there are souls
embodied on Earth today
that I call
interplanetary souls that
primarily don't incarnate here.
They incarnate
elsewhere, and they
incarnate in, you might say,
healthy celestial locations
elsewhere.
And they bring their
wisdom with them.
So that's one answer.
The other answer is,
yes, I have heard,
from far more than one client,
that if, in fact, Earth
doesn't survive--
and I don't think that's going
to happen next year, or even
probably in your
lifetime or my lifetime.
But if, in fact,
Earth doesn't survive,
I have heard spontaneously
from more than one client
that other locations are being
prepared where life will exist
and where our souls
will incarnate.
So I think that's valid.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
You've heard this before?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: The same situations?
>>LISA: Wow.
Do you find themes
like that happen often?
Themes of locations.
Obviously, history
is able to tell,
but does that
happen often, where
you're hearing more and more
now of these future locations?
>>BACKMAN: I think
the best answer
to that is yes,
because I've heard
that in recent times, probably
the last three to five years.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>BACKMAN: And I think that ties
to the struggles that humanity
is going through on our planet--
>>LISA: Yeah, it's real.
>>BACKMAN: --right now.
>>LISA: It is real.
>>BACKMAN: And I'll just say
it in maybe a silly way--
the jury is still out.
We, as humans, need to
step up and be active.
That's what social action is
about, active participants.
Or what will happen is
this planet won't survive.
>>LISA: So these interplanetary
souls we're talking about,
are they here--
first of all, how
do you identify
an interplanetary soul?
You call them IP souls.
>>BACKMAN: Well, let
me just say briefly,
just a quick kind of history
of what I've learned about.
Where did the souls
come from that
came to Earth to start with?
So, simplistically,
when Earth began
to have what we call
Homo sapien life,
my understanding is that all the
souls then incarnated on Earth
came from somewhere else.
They were souls that had
incarnated elsewhere.
They came to Earth
with the agreement
to assist Earth to evolve.
Now, some of those souls
are what I write about
and I've learned
about their clients
are called Earth-based souls.
What that means is they
came from elsewhere,
but life on Earth began,
most scientists say,
40,000 to 50,000 years ago.
They have repetitively
incarnated onto Earth.
I'm an example of that.
>>LISA: Somewhere in history.
>>BACKMAN: I'm an
Earth-based soul.
I've been coming here sort of
ad nauseam for tens of thousands
of years.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>BACKMAN: I'm regressing a lot
of clients in the last 10 to 12
years who discover they're
interplanetary souls, meaning
they don't regularly come here.
They come here on occasion,
and they come to Earth,
if I oversimplify the
explanation, because they're
highly evolved.
And they come from
evolved, healthy locations.
They come to teach us how
to progress as humanity.
>>LISA: Can it be hard
for them to adapt, though,
to this life, this
history, this planet?
>>BACKMAN: My guides
pushed me a few years ago
to write this newest
book that I've written,
which is filled with
client material that comes
from interplanetary souls.
And so it's about their gifts,
their wisdom, their skills,
and their struggles.
And their struggles are sizable,
because simplistically, they're
not used to human bodies.
They're not used to
human way of life.
They're not used
to human nutrition,
socialization, human
chemicals in the air.
They struggle a great deal.
>>LISA: So they're
hypersensitive, but also,
can you identify them, like
certain characteristics?
If someone's
watching and they're
starting to identify
with what you say,
what are some other
characteristics of an IP soul?
>>BACKMAN: And I'll start a
little bit with IP adults.
And then, probably,
it's important for us
to talk about IP, or
interplanetary, children.
IP adults, again, it's
that classic thing of they
have great wisdom.
They seem to see
the bigger picture.
Sometimes they even
physically appear unique.
Sometimes, they are people
that wear really unusual--
I'm trying not to sound the
least bit judgmental, because I
don't mean it that way.
They wear unusual
color combinations.
prints and plaids.
>>LISA: Because it's not
something that matters.
>>BACKMAN: It doesn't matter.
They have sometimes unusual
haircuts and hairstyles,
hair colors.
But sometimes they look
average and ordinary, too,
so I don't want
to overstate that.
>>LISA: Are they fascinated
with the stars and the planets
and astronomy?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
I'm thinking about
one client, probably
from a few weeks ago, where he
said to me, after we discovered
through his regression that
he's an interplanetary soul, he
said, all my childhood,
I could do nothing
but stare out the window.
I couldn't get enough of
staring out at the sky at night.
And everybody thought I
was weird and strange.
Well, he said to
me, now I know why.
So, again, it gives
that context, again.
>>LISA: What about people that
feel that they've been abducted
or are extremely
interested in disclosure
and aliens and other planets
and spaceships and so forth,
that are really
deeply connected?
>>BACKMAN: I just want
to say yes, yes, yes.
>>LISA: So they've
been on another planet
most of their life, lifetimes?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
And if you'd asked
me 25 years ago,
Linda, do you believe
this kind of stuff?
I'd go, oh, just that's crazy.
Yes.
I mean, I have
clients that begin--
I'm intending to guide
a past life regression,
and the first scene is
literally in a spaceship.
And some listeners
might go, oh, well,
the client was just
making that up.
The level of detail,
and the level of
not only the detail of the ship.
We get literal
physical detail of what
materials is it made from and
what do the controls look like.
The chain of command on
the ship is explained.
The interrelationships of the
chain of command on the ship
is explained.
There's far too many details,
in my opinion, to be made up.
>>LISA: It seems
like it's real, just
like any other
regression in history.
We just don't have the
history books to show it.
>>BACKMAN: I mean, Lisa,
I have no doubt it's real.
It comes up spontaneously.
I don't guide the regression
in that direction.
I don't prompt it that way.
It happens completely--
I mean, that's
my cardinal rule
with regression,
is don't lead the witness.
So I don't prompt it that way.
And it explains
things to the client
that they never had,
again, content for.
>>LISA: Do they tend to be
in a specific profession
or here to tell us something
or impact position in life?
Is there anything there?
>>BACKMAN: I mean, that's
what's really cool, in a way.
Some of these are tall,
muscular engineer men
that you would never dream, in a
million years, were an IP soul.
And some of them
are people that come
in with these unusual
clothes and unusual colors
and unusual haircuts.
It varies from A to Z.
>>LISA: And then they
somehow find themselves
to a past life regression.
Let's talk about the children,
and how do you identify
children who might be IP souls?
>>BACKMAN: Well, I think this is
really crucial, because I think
there are so many children
that we are mislabeling
and that we don't understand.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BACKMAN: And they're children
with diagnoses like ADHD.
I think sometimes the autistic
spectrum is a misnomer.
Some of these children
simply come from planets
where they don't talk.
They have telepathic
communication.
They have healthy
lives, but they don't
socialize the way humans do.
But these are also children
that are phenomenally gifted.
I think about there's a little
girl that Ellen DeGeneres has
had on her show many times.
And this little girl
knows presidents
backwards and forwards.
>>LISA: Very intelligent.
>>BACKMAN: Oh, she's phenomenal.
I'll bet she's an IP soul.
But we need to support them.
>>LISA: And the parents of them.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: So have
you had experiences
where you've
identified an IP child,
and did it help the parent?
>>BACKMAN: Well,
what I end up doing
is you can't regress
young children.
They're not sophisticated
enough to be regressed.
So I often work in spiritual
counseling with the parents
and help the parents understand
their child, why their child is
unique in this way.
And then I'll just
add, when I started
discovering so many
interplanetary souls
in my practice, about
10 to 12 years ago,
one of our
grandchildren was born,
who is now about to be 12.
And he has an
interplanetary soul.
So it's like this all
happen simultaneously
for me for a reason, so
that I understand him
and, in certain ways,
can support my own son
and daughter-in-law.
Because he's been diagnosed
ADHD and is advanced in math
and delayed in other ways.
He's doing much better.
>>LISA: With just
simple communication?
I mean, how would that help him?
You say, well, you're probably
from a celestial planet?
How would that help them?
>>BACKMAN: We've not, like,
literally said that to him.
What's helped him is to
be accepting of who he is.
And then other
things have happened.
His diet has been changed.
His diet has been altered.
He's taking supplements that
are making a huge difference.
His parents get him in ways
they didn't get him before.
And he's in a wonderful school
that understands these children
with learning differences.
>>LISA: That's great.
But an adult, I mean, where
they find themselves fascinated
with video games that are
futuristic and so forth,
is there a way that--
or a group of people
they can communicate with.
Did you have any way of IP souls
connecting with each other?
>>BACKMAN: Well, I
mean, sometimes I'll
work with a new
client, and they'll
have certain issues that are
related to them being IP souls.
At times, I might communicate
and get permission
from a different client
and connect them together.
I've done some group work--
>>LISA: Because I
was going to say--
>>BACKMAN: --with IP souls.
>>LISA: --they could
reincarnate in groups, right?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
Yes, and it's why I
wrote the third book,
because it's all about this,
so people could read about it.
>>LISA: So have you
found soul groups
that have reincarnated together
that you've introduced?
IP soul groups?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
Yes.
That's not happened a lot.
I've done that a bit more
with Earth-based souls.
But I do work with
the IP soul client
to help them discover do they
know anyone else in their life
who is an IP soul, to help them
identify someone in their life.
Now, I'll add in, also,
it may be important,
Lisa, for people to know, often,
IP souls come to the Earth
alone.
It's not uncommon for an IP soul
to come here without members
of their soul group.
They've come as a scout.
They've come to help
prepare others from where
they come from to come here.
So they need a lot of
support and understanding.
>>LISA: And skills in
order to cope on Earth.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Here,
understanding who they are
is one thing, but then the
socialization and workplace
etiquette and so forth
that would help them manage
a little bit easier on Earth.
>>BACKMAN: Yes, and acceptance.
It's like they can go
into their job and focus.
But then, they need to not beat
up on themselves because they
go home and listen to
music for three hours
because that's what they need.
>>LISA: Yeah.
That's great.
That's terrific.
When you take someone through
a typical past life regression,
it's a very relaxing
state, isn't it?
It's peaceful.
>>BACKMAN: Well, it's what we
call alpha or theta brain wave
state, which if people
understand that,
it's a relaxed place
where they're conscious.
But it's just a place
of greater ease.
>>LISA: In a past life
regression session, have
you ever discovered an illness
through the session, where
somebody would then go
to a doctor's office
and validate a malignant
cell or something like that?
Has that happened?
>>BACKMAN: So you're
probably asking more about
like what we call medical
intuitive work, where
the client discovers,
in the regression,
they currently have an illness?
>>LISA: Correct.
>>BACKMAN: I think no
is the best answer.
I mean, have I
discovered information
about past life that explains
literal illness the client is
aware they have?
Yes.
But discovering an undiagnosed
illness as yet, no.
Yeah.
>>LISA: Well, that's good.
I mean, there's dreams,
and medical intuitives
do that, as well.
What about you, as a mom,
being the mother of two,
how do they explain
what their mom does?
>>BACKMAN: Oh, that is
a wonderful question.
One of my children
is a psychologist.
My daughter is actually
a psychologist.
And she does wonderful work
with children and families
and forensic work and
that kind of thing.
I am actually the unique mother
and the unique grandmother.
I am much more
spiritually focused
than my children are, probably
because I'm not their mother.
My children-in-law, so I
have two married children,
are a bit more accepting.
My children are respectful.
They're not into this anywhere.
>>LISA: They're not?
>>BACKMAN: They're
not anywhere near.
And what's interesting,
at times, Lisa,
is their friends are.
So I will meet their
friends, and their friends
will start asking me
all kinds of questions,
and they're fascinated.
And I mean, my children
just kind of sit back
and let that happen.
It's OK.
But remember, I'm the
mom, and I'm not the mom
to their friends.
>>LISA: So they find it's
fascinating, what you do.
But at least your
daughter was inspired
and went into some
type of therapy work.
>>BACKMAN: Yes, exactly.
>>LISA: Which is great.
So the RavenHeart
Center is a school
where you say you teach
people how to do past life
regression on others.
And what is that protocol?
Just briefly, what
would it look like?
>>BACKMAN: Well, it's
two levels of training.
Past life regression training
is almost like regression 101.
That's the first training.
And the second training is
between lives regression.
I call that almost
like 301 or 401.
There's two types of training.
I train face-to-face, and I
also do the past life regression
training through a video
conferencing mode as well as
face-to-face.
The between lives
regression training
has to be face-to-face.
It's deep.
It's profound.
We practice with each other,
as we do in the past life.
But I offer both
types of training.
>>LISA: It's a
very delicate type
of work, where you're really
walking into somebody's
subconscious mind.
So you have to be very clear,
very careful, and very ethical.
>>BACKMAN: Yes,
and well-trained.
I'm a stickler-- maybe it's
because I'm a psychologist.
You do not have to
be a psychologist
to be an effective
regression therapist,
so I want people to hear
that loud and clear.
Lots of people who train with me
are absolutely not credentialed
psychotherapists.
But it requires
training to understand
what do you do if the client
moves forward to a next scene,
there isn't a next scene?
How do you know when
to move backward?
How do you know what to do with
the anxious client, the sobbing
client?
>>LISA: Right,
that's uncontrollably
discovering something
that makes so much sense.
>>BACKMAN: The
client discovering
the Holocaust past life,
which you and I have both
experienced.
It's always purposeful, though.
And I always want to say,
it's important for people
to understand I'm not the guru.
The gurus of my clients
are their spiritual guides
and their soul self.
>>LISA: Their soul.
>>BACKMAN: And that's where
the information comes from, is
their soul and their guides.
>>LISA: I found that
you were on Dr. Oz,
and it's wonderful that this
conversation has become more
acceptable in the mainstream.
What was that experience like?
>>BACKMAN: It was great.
I mean, Dr. Mehmet Oz is very
much into this kind of work,
as is his wife, for
people who know his wife.
He's very open to this
kind of spiritual--
I mean, I wouldn't have been
invited to be on his show,
obviously, if that
hadn't been the case.
And so he's very into this.
I would hazard to say he's
a very experienced soul
and is a very caring individual.
And so I felt like
it was a gift to be
asked to do something that
was so broadly accepted
and recognized.
It's growing.
Slowly but surely, it's growing.
>>LISA: It's growing.
And did you get good
reaction from that?
>>BACKMAN: Very much so.
>>LISA: Fantastic.
>>BACKMAN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Yeah, and it's great.
They watched somebody
go through a regression
and really got to
see how safe it is.
And I think it's important
to be able to show that
to a national audience,
that it's safe.
It's got to be through
someone who's experienced,
that is a professional, that
goes through a protocol.
And how to do it the right way.
>>BACKMAN: Right.
>>LISA: Yeah, especially when
they hit upon a big picture
like that, when somebody
really makes a big discovery.
I always ask my guests,
what is your biggest why?
What is your biggest reason
for doing what you do?
>>BACKMAN: I have no doubt
that I know why I do what I do,
and it's because my soul
agreed to do this work.
My soul agreed to
help people discover
who they are at the core.
So they know why they're
here, what's happened before.
All of us have challenges,
so it goes back to that book
from years ago.
Why do bad things
happen to good people?
They're not bad things.
They are karmic cleanup
things and things that
cause us to evolve as a soul.
So I honestly don't
struggle with why,
but that's a beautiful question.
>>LISA: You're unwavering.
You're solid in what you do.
And you will keep
going to spread
this great message to humanity.
So thank you so much for
sharing with us what past life
regression is, how
to make it safe,
and really how to let people
know that there's repeated soul
experiences on this planet
and to find out what they are.
So thank you very much.
>>BACKMAN: Thank you, Lisa.
It's been a pleasure.
>>LISA: Mine, too.
Thank you.
And if you'd like to watch
more inspirational programming,
check out
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr, and
until next time,
I invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]